Terms and conditions of use - your license to use Mercury/32

Mercury/32 is provided as a free service for non-commercial users. For 
commercial users, modestly-priced licenses are available for purchase 
- please click here for more information on ordering licenses and the 
terms associated with them.

If you are a non-commercial user and are running the program free of 
charge, you agree to be governed and bound by the following license 
terms in your use of the Mercury/32 program.

Mercury/32 is fully proprietary copyrighted software. David Harris 
("The Author"), asserts his right to be recognized as the author and 
copyright owner under International Treaty and Copyright Law. The 
reservation of these rights notwithstanding, the Author wishes to 
provide the Mercury Software freely for the benefit of the broader 
Internet User Community, and especially for the benefit of users of 
his Pegasus Mail mail client.

You are granted a non-exclusive license to use the Mercury/32 software 
on as many computers as you wish subject to the following terms and 
conditions:

Consideration:  You may use the Mercury/32 software without any fee or 
charge for as long as your status remains non-commercial. You agree 
that the author of the Mercury/32 system receives consideration from 
your use of the program in the form of acclaim and valuable 
reputation, and that this consideration is sufficient to bind you to 
the terms of this license even in the absence of a formal license 
purchase.

Prohibited uses:  Mercury/32 may not be used as a transport for the 
dissemination of Bulk Unsolicited Commercial E-mail (commonly referred 
to as "spam"). For the purposes of this section, Bulk Unsolicited 
Commercial E-mail shall be taken to mean any type of e-mail sent to 
lists of more than 50 addresses where the addressees have not 
explicitly expressed interest in receiving such e-mail.

No transfer of rights:  You agree that your use of the Mercury 
software entails no transfer of intellectual property rights, 
copyright or ownership from the Author.

No liability:  The Mercury software is provided without warranty of 
performance. While the author has taken every care to ensure that the 
software works correctly and without fault, you agree to hold the 
Author blameless for any and all damage or loss caused by its use.

Distribution and supply:  You may distribute the Mercury/32 Software 
to any person or organization by whatever means you wish provided 
that:


a)	You do not charge more than reasonable handling or media 
production fees for the supply of the Mercury/32 Software itself. b)
You do not represent ownership or title over the Mercury/32 Software. 
c)	You supply the Mercury/32 Software complete and unmodified. d)	
You do not supply the Mercury/32 software as part of, or in 
conjunction with, any package or promotion explicitly designed for the 
purpose of disseminating Bulk Unsolicited Commercial E-mail.
